Hey, This is Saad Anwar. I'm really excited to be given the opportunity to work with the esteemed and highly regarded personnel through this program. This document is supplementary and you may read it if you feel like it. This will cover my journey from idea generation to the implementation and the steps I took as well as how I was able to improvise throughout the project journey.

7/1/2025:

Since this is a general prototype implementation, I will try to find the absolute best dataset possible for this however since we have not been given a particular research with and have been left with some things open to interpretation, I initially chose the NASA CMAPSS Dataset however, the dataset has been revoked from the official website and finding another version of it unofficially would be against a general laws of Intellectual property (Not that I know much about that but still it's like they say "Better safe than sorry"). I have grabbed a dataset off Kaggle which includes a lot of data regarding some dummy space missions and has some suitable columns and attributes for anomaly detection. I would be able to work with this for task 2 only however I want to create models for both 1 and 2. For task 2, I will be carrying on with this dataset but for task 1, I will add some more dummy columns to this dataset preferably some time series data or look for another dataset and employ some sort of Recurrant Neural Network to work with this data since they are specialized for such sequences.

7/2/2025:

General Preprocessing of the dataset was performed which included encoding the relevant categorical attributes as well as using the Standard Scaler to scale the numerical features of the dataset to avoid imbalanced or biased results.

7/3/2025:

Implemented the code of the Isolation Forest to identify the outliers and identify anomalies in such space missions. A specialized or more targeted dataset might've yielded even better outputs but this was a preliminary sketch and eventually led to the creation of this python script.
